

====== eppur-si-muove ======
Eppur Si Muove
More and more, I am coming to regard evil as an emergent property. It is hard not to suspect that
even discounting the algorithmic primitives of cruelty and vice, we have somehow still made the
world worse than the sum of its parts. Confronted by chaos, everywhere and all of the time, I
find myself compelled to seek meaning in it. To try - in a life defined by technology - to find
some scrap of teleology. Absurd and futile, but I do it anyway. It is my only defence against
drowning, against the permanent nagging mindache of everything everywhere all of the time.
It's something I think about a lot when smoking. That filthy fucking habit, maintained as a
permanent concession to my id. Another common weapon in the friendly contest between my
heart and lungs to see which can do me in first. The fags were a temporary concession from my
wife while waiting for the pills, the ones supposed to make me less me. Now the medication has
arrived so the smoking must sadly expire. In the interregnum of this final pack however, I
believe I spy another little metaphor.
I blame this on the fact I do not actually own a working lighter. Instead my present incendiary
solution is to combine a bic with plenty of fuel but no flint with a long-dry piezo jobbie. Push
them close and keep clicking in the hope that the gas from one will meet the spark of the other. It
is of course immensely frustrating, but I now realise that might have been the point. Something
to focus on, and displace my cravings for everything else. This awful need makes me nothing but
ire and bile, taunted by desires only partly within my power to satisfy. There is a persistent,
annoying little click, in discordant chorus with that hiss of wasted butane. It rarely works the first
time, necessitating the shaking of one and the cursing of the other. Persistence is necessary.
When it comes - and it will come - you must be ready to strike. The flame never lasts, and
requires a decisive mind. Clench your teeth, and draw deep. Success is a hit quite separate from
nicotine. A sense of seizure, of assertion, vitrified by the alchemy of combustion. An instant that
- for once - you did not allow to pass you by.
That might be why I do it. Determined to make meaning from broken things, in a world so ready
to discard them. It makes me feel as if I have earned my vices. Here in this darkened winter
world, there is not much else to do. It is a ready distraction while I walk the dog. She likes to
sniff around the cemetery, meaning most every day we follow a path running distressingly close
to the graves of children. It can feel invasive, to be there in the moments when they are tended to.
You find yourself wishing that the dog - unburdened by the human condition - could resist
wandering over to see if there's any food in that memorial.
So it is that on one of these grey December afternoons, I meet one of the mourners. He is coming
to the end of no-little labour, tending to one of those fun-sized headstones. Decorating it. Baubles
and tinsel and - of course - Christmas lights. Those winking circuits of confected tradition. I find
my eyes meeting his, and while the dog takes a piss up the tree between us, I say that it's a nice
thing he's doing.
Well they weren't his he says, quick not to claim ownership of the grief. He was just a friend. But
she - and here he indicates a second fully pimped-out resting place - lost them both within a year
of each other. So he does what he can.
Christ. I donÆt know what to say. DonÆt know what could be said. I never do in these small
moments that demand a humanity I appear to lack. All I have is a reflexive need to deflect
poignancy wherever I encounter it. To sneer at that Peppa Pig headstone, and the inarguable
gaudiness of it all. I want to find a reason not to care, and that bone deep elitism usually provides
it. Contempt for the tastelessness of poverty, and therefore the people living it. Why do I do it?
To try so remorselessly to undercut the intimacy of simple feeling? Because it is easier than to
imagine a stranger utterly ruined by grief. Easier to imagine than a field of them. A world of
them.
So rather than take the five minutes to empathise, I nod and walk on. The image stays with me
though. At night I see them, glittering like marshlights. A hundred acts of devotion, markers of
irretrievable loss. Each little light in this great field is a star. And now like Galileo I have learnt a
fraction more about those in closest orbit.
Self awareness is not what I am struggling with. It is this other-awareness that is proving to be
such trouble. Pain, it seems, is our only truly renewable resource. I am still trying to figure out
what can be done with such inexhaustible supply. Half a mind for science. Half a soul for art.
That's all I have to work with. On days like this - most days now - it does not feel like enough.
Addled by the ambition and frustration and the drugs and lack of them.
I canÆt be the only one who feels this way, canÆt be alone in wondering how we all came to
inhabit our own private realities. Delocalised lives running in parallel, mediated only by the
alchemy of rare-earth semiconductors, and the capacity of vacuum to bear an informational load.
How the fuck did we get here?
I am a physicist, and therefore fatally afflicted with the astigmatism of reductionism. If I try to
explain the world as it appears to me, it can only be articulated through that language. The
structures underlying reality as I understand it. That is, to frame the now as reflective of deeper
principles of information and energy, and to cast our struggle up the technological ladder as the
imitation and application of the same laws that animate all dynamics.
And what exactly are those laws? What is the mathematical structure that pays not just for
physics, but the algorithmic scaffolding into which we pour our lives?
Vectors.
It's vectors I swear.
They point the way.
They do so because three centuries of linear algebra have honed them into weapons of
devastating expressivity, into containers for both known and unknown, and the ultimate
compressor of meaning. They are the kernel. The numinous glimmer I cling to. Linear algebra.
It's ruined my life.
And whether you realise it or not, itÆs probably ruined yours too. Because within this geometric
abstraction runs a conceptual thread from Newton to Hamilton to von Neumann. Drawing it tight
has rendered information physical. It enables the all-consuming monster that is computation, and
its bastard progeny machine learning. Beautiful in its minimalism. Terrifying in both its
capacities and limitations.
It has been on my mind for months. Since I stepped into Pisa with a fag in my mouth and evil in
my heart. I was there for a workshop on quantum computation and thermodynamics - perfect if
questions of entropy and irreversibility will not let you be. It was happening with typically
insalubrious timing, but it's always a bad time when that's what you're having. In this case
however the programme overlapped with one of the periodic psychiatric appointments I have
been subjected to. So it is that in a too-small hotel room - one where to power my laptop IÆve had
to dismantle a fridge - that IÆm virtually diagnosed with a second neurodevelopmental disorder.
What a wretched experience, simultaneously invasive and pointless. There is no cure, no succour
in having what you already knew confirmed. The incapacity to change it robs it completely of its
liberating potential. There in that hard-bedded room, with its dodgy toilet and single desultory
sachet of shower gel, I am categorised twenty years too late for it to matter. I am asked if the
outcome is surprising to me, while being recommended some pamphlets to read. I am more
interested to learn if IÆm now entitled to a discount in model shops.
I mention all this simply to frame the mood, and blame it for the decision to punish myself. To
choose violence. After our move back from the US, my wife took custody of the 126 tabs of LSD
I had smuggled back. We agreed in the aftermath of my slow motion breakdown that a pause on
some of the drugs was necessary. I could not however bear to be wholly unarmed, and kept a
secret charge within my diary. Just so that when the moment of maximum damage presented
itself, I would be ready. I load myself up with all 300 Ág of Chekhov's drugs, and wait for the
poison to do its work.
Ninety minutes later, and I am smoking. I'm out in the crush of tourists that surround the tower's
piazza, being. What previously appeared merely contrived becomes - in the light of the acid -
fully fucking weird. They're all... posing. Like a tai chi flashmob, with only one move. And it's
people, just people of every persuasion. They're everywhere.
I take a breath, feeling more than slightly sick. The sky overhead is darkening. People are on the
grass where there are signs telling people that people are not allowed on the grass. Omens of
doom. Or at the very least, some of that weather my wife warned me about before I left my
raincoat behind. I'm no longer quite so sure I don't need it.
Ahead of me is the cathedral. Shelter. Inside I go, crossing the threshold as the first drops begin
to fall. Struck by the warmth of incense, I swallow. I go to sit at a pew, and realise my hands are
shaking slightly. Reflexively, they go for my diary. I tug it out of the pocket, and perform the
usual ritual. Find the page. Try the pen. Fight with the pen. Shake and rage and screw and
unscrew until ink once again flows from its nib. Test pen. Test pen again for luck. Grab AùÆs
crystal gift from the Sedona vortex and worry at its quartz leaves. Will the words to come.
Nothing.
Looking around, my eye alights on the central chandelier, swinging softly. In a sort of automated
reverence, I take my pulse with two fingers on the wrist. It's a harmonic oscillator. But this is
where such an idea first entered the human mind, when Galileo timed its swing. A perfect
pendulum, an ideal spring, the first and best approximation to the universe at large. It is the first
harmonic oscillator. It spreads the scent of myrrh with each isochronous swing. It brings me back
to catechism.
Adam, it was said, knew all things. At least all things which it was possible to know. It was
scientia infusa - infused and intrinsic knowledge. But in a fallen world such truths could only
decay. Scientia acquisita - the knowledge we acquire through experience - must therefore be
regarded as unreliable, suspect, liable to malign warpings. Do not believe your eyes, they lie. Do
not rely on your reason, it is insufficient. Trust Aristotle, and when the evidence of the senses
comes into conflict with the wisdom of the beatified past, do not be alarmed. It is simply
evidence of the imperfection of immanence, of the incapacity of any mortal to encompass the
divine.
Galileo changed all this. Rewriting the laws of motion did not satisfy him, and mapping the
heavens was insufficient. These could only be tools in service of his ultimate goal - nothing less
than the complete reshaping of the human condition. No amount of conventional success could
achieve it, because the demand he made was not of himself but of the world. To make the
rightness of his perspective undeniable, and force a recognition that we sit not at the centre of
creation but on a cosmic periphery. He made his manner of thinking, writing, and being a living
rebuke, a means by which to expose the prior falseness of belief. A triumph not just of intellect
but of will - though that same animus for greatness also laid him low. He could not bend without
breaking, could not resist needlessly making himself a martyr.
He is surely my spirit animal.
I am not unaware of what an outrageous comparison this is to draw, based only on our shared
profession and common hostility to authority. I need to make it though, because now more than
ever I require something to sustain me. Some locus of belief to fix on, while I am failing and
flailing and tired. I became a physicist for negative reasons, because I simply do not know of
any other way to be. Now I am all that remains of a thing that no longer exists, that sought
nothing but permission. To be impractical, indulged and erratic. To be mad, and yet carry that
madness with a scarcely believable moral smugness. I see now what a juvenile ontology it is.
And yet for all that I still do it. I care about it all so much more than I should, because it is
simply my identity.
But my identity is not in my hands. Is there a person alive being more consistently fucked by
academia than me? Certainly no one complaining about it so much. I am coming to truly hate
universities. They punish what they pretend to protect. A final sanctuary for credentialed morons,
proudly wearing the skin of values they have eaten.
Still, I persist, for reasons I do not fully understand. Caught firm in this rusty bear trap of a
system, and here by choice. Why canÆt I do the sensible thing and lie still? Because my problem
is Lutherian. Here I stand, I can do no other. CanÆt help it. CanÆt help my feral thrashings, even
as those teeth shred my trotter. Numb the pain it brings with drink and drugs and rage.
Will there ever be a version of myself I recognise? All I see is a hard person to know. Harder to
love. A sullen Roman Catholic, so Irish as to be inbred, and predisposed towards any substance
that can be abused. A non-believing stain on concrete. There is nothing behind the eyes.
Nothing. And now that nothing is finally forced to sit with itself, and feel shame. I try to keep
my eyes dry, and resolve this must be the last time on acid. I do it to distract myself, not caring
for the trail of minor traumas left in my wake. The dozen, hundred times and places have warped
me in too many ways. It commands me to laugh, in the way only horror can. It sent me to
scotland. It left me to disassociate barefoot in MiamiÆ airport. It made me shit myself in
HemingwayÆs house.
This has to be the last time.
But the moment I think it, a chuckle slips through the sob. Is that not exactly what I said the last
time I was high in a church? The acid shortens the mental distance to the event, and I find myself
returned bodily to the moment. WeÆre in a church just beyond Holborn station, kneeling at the
pews. I am unable to stop myself giggling, even as my wife mouths at me to stop. We have spent
the day enjoying the company of friends, visiting from the American home that was, and now
one of them is holding us hostage.
Perhaps I should have expected this.
WeÆd all met around lunch for a pint, with a plan to take a day wandering about central London
and the haunts of my PhD, before ending with dinner. A nice day out, which Dù and I - with the
reluctant agreement of our wives - will do on acid. ItÆs a venerable tradition for us, and - for me
at least- a chance to feel like IÆd reclaimed some piece of the life IÆd lost in the move.
Unfortunately I didnÆt reckon with the uncompromising mania that would take hold of Dù in
the presence of religion.
He spots a church, and suggests we enter. This is coolly received. He pleads with us. What has he
asked for? Five minutes. Five minutes is all he wants. I try to relay to him the degree to which his
insistence is becoming uncomfortable. The sky is spitting, the women are becoming anxious.
He's getting so wound up about it, is this really the hill he wants to die on? I offer reluctantly to
go alone with him, but he wants us all. He brings up the volume of his demand in a manner that
makes it impossible to refuse. We're left slightly stunned, helpless to resist as he shepherds us
inside. He insists it will be good for us, and in a tone like a disciplining father tells us we are
going inside, we will be five minutes, and we will be respectful. He has that frenzy in his eyes,
that look of a self uncontained. To my eye he has transmuted into one of the Manson family.
In we go, feeling slightly traumatised by how rapidly this has escalated. D--- has taken matters
into his own hands. We are going to experience the imminence of the divine whether we like it or
not. What the fuck is happening. Fuck is all I can think. Did I want this sort of chaos? I have
been doing my best to invite it in. Fuck. Fuck.
I am so absorbed in the guilt of it all that I almost miss seeing what D--- is doing. He has
approached the altar. He has taken off his shoes. He has knelt before the altar in an extremely
Buddhist manner. He is making a sort of hooting and gibbering - whatever deity he thinks he is
communing with, itÆs not one I recognise.
I smell no incense, only smoke. It fills my nostrils and reminds me that on the promise of five
pounds a week, I was once an altar server. It never suited me. Too easily bored and distracted,
never knowing my cues for that bloody bell. So I would ring at random intervals and lengths, to
give the appearance of engagement. No wonder they gave it to the other boy, the good boy. He
knew exactly how to play the backing track to the eucharistÆs transubstantiation. That strategic
obedience clearly served him well - heÆs baron of Letchworth now.
Something about that act of secular simony sticks with me. That it seems somehow a betrayal of
all the sanctimonious cant I was raised on. And withered as it is, I still hear it within me. Still
feel it. Try as I might, I am still in the grip of that primeval thing. Led by its paradoxical dogma,
the light that darkens. It took two attempts to get me confirmed because I could not reconcile
what I was being sold with the people selling it. The stick convinced me the carrot was a lie. But
God help me I believed in the stick. Made the guilt load bearing. And now thereÆs no way to
reform my interior architecture without collapsing the whole edifice.
It is at root why Dù keeps trying to do this to me. To force me to love myself. ThatÆs the rock of
his identity, a kind of helpless compassion bred from being the son of a preacher man. It drives
him wild with anguish, to believe so completely he has an answer worth hearing, and have it fall
on such hostile ears. The failure of each attempt winds the spring of despair a turn tighter. Makes
grace and charity that bit harder. The blunt indifference of the world to the meaning you make
becomes so outrageous - so utterly intolerable - that eventually you snap. It becomes
existentially necessary to reciprocate the bluntness of demand, the deafness to compromise, that
you have been living. You start taking hostages. This is my fault.
After some time ever so slightly short of five minutes, D--- is approached by his spouse. His side
of the conversation is more than loud enough to follow, and he spits in a stage whisper something
about how she almost gave him his five minutes, but couldn't quite manage it. Our cue to leave
arrives as D--- rises and storms from the church. The effect is only slightly diminished by the
fact he has to go back for his shoes.
As we exit, I wonder how the day is going to recover, and regret my part turning this into what is
surely already going to be a memorable anniversary for both Dù and his wife. Even worse, I am
really beginning to worry we're not going to be making tonight's dinner reservation.
I chuckle at the memory, and am appalled to discover that in my reverie I have been repeating
DùÆs aural faux pas. It appears I have been making some hoots and gibbers of my own - why
else would they be staring? I reflexively begin to cringe, but find - in an act of inexplicable grace
- that my usual compulsion toward shame does not weigh quite so heavily upon me. Why should
I care? I think of vectors, which point where they will. There is no amount of manipulation - of
teasing and pleading - that will make them other than what they are. Changing their label does
not change their function.
And in the moment of thinking it, I have a moment of profound happiness, in knowing it must be
true. I want to laugh, to delight in the fact that so simple a semantic trick the ugliness in my head
can be made beautiful. A further glance around and catch the eye of a nonna giving me daggers.
The laughter can wait until IÆm out of GodÆs earshot.
It doesnÆt last. Those trite acid revelations never do. But it is enough to hold, to remember on
those pallid winter days when it seems the light is flickering. Flickering, but just enough to get
this bloody fag lit.
And because life is random, and sometimes ironic in its randomness, this happens to be the
moment I get a call. It's that broker, the one to whom my honesty months prior had rendered the
question of life insurance impossible. She's ringing to let me know that a policy now exists
which is compatible with my details. Do I happen to have five minutes? I pause, reflecting on
my troubled relationship to the request. It all worked out in the end. No one was arrested or
hospitalised, and Dù even managed to recohere in time for dinner. It was fine, and now this
broker is asking me to admit that itÆs not. The idea struggles for life on my tongue, competing
with the other faculties. Friends on my mind, commerce in my ears, and my eyesà
My eyes are on the dog. Little old poodle. Missing half her teeth, completely deaf and going
blind. Stumps around on her three remaining legs, wagging her tail. I find myself slightly choked
by the purity of her consistency. Always the same, across all our travels together, through swamp
and desert and all the miles that joined them. She sprinted across the beaches of the Atlantic
coast, and tumbled down the dunes of the Sangre Cristo mountain. SheÆs stolen my drugs and
IÆve stolen hers. That dog has lived.
And she so easily might not have. She came to us as a medical foster, with a smashed pelvis and
dim expectations of survival. Vet didnÆt think sheÆd walk again.
And yet, she moves.


====== the-line ======
The Line
March 28, 2026
It is a slippery waxy morning, in a corner of city park that - apart from
the sporadic crack of rifle fire - might have been cut and pasted clean from the
late Jurassic. The air hangs thick, and holds the world in a clammy embrace.
It clings. In a vain attempt to escape it, I have strung a hammock. So now I
swing suspended, enduring an interrogation by a psychedelic stasi agent. IÆm
sorryDù,IloveyoubutforthesakeofmyownamusementImust crucifyyou.
And doing that requires me to be just as jaded and cynical as you believe IÆm
not.
There I lie, just trying to find the right angle for my hat to block out the
sun, while he paces in circuits around the hammock. He is coming at me like
a starving wolf, desperate for the most meaningful conversation that can be
ripped from my grasp. I do not know what he expects - thereÆs precious little
left not actively being dissolved by the acid bath - but thatÆs not going to stop
him from trying.
He says he finds meaning from talking.
I tell him to write it down.
He declares there is nothing but now.
I ask if the IRS sees it the same way.
There is an insistence that all my needs are being met, that I am safe, that
noonehaseverbeenassafeasIamrightnow. Butsafetyisonlyeverstatistical.
ItÆs not going to do anything for you if some day-drinker in automotion decides
theyÆre going to put the you in SUV, and inadvertently make human mince
while trying to jump the light1. ItÆs not going to stop my heart deciding itÆs
boredofworkingsomefutureFriday,andkeelmeoverlikeanover-wateredlush.
And itÆs certainly not going to prevent whichever geriatric narcissist has their
fingeronthebuttonfrombaptisinganewworldwithnuclearfire. Despitewhat
yourfavouritenurseryteachermayhaveledyoutobelieve,youdonÆtfixbroken
things by getting happy clappy with them, and you are only safe until youÆre
not.
He keeps banging on about how much IÆve achieved, but all I can think is it
tookmethreeattemptstohangthisfuckinghammockanddespitethisamnow
wracked by the nagging feeling I fucked tying it to the trees. In twenty minutes
IÆm going to look across to my more competent friendÆs setup and realise that
1IhearthegrillesofthosesuperF-150raptorsexbombswipecleanreal easy.
1
I felt this way because yes, I did indeed fuck the damn thing up. Did it wrong,
madeitharderthanitneededtobe. NowthatÆsametaphorIthinkcouldstand
up to further exploration, but instead I am beseeched - beseeched - to open my
eyes and embrace love. Or something.
But if I open my eyes the light will get in. Maybe IÆll stare at the sun until
the retinas burn away, just to prove a point. Some crack Victorian physician
out of new Jersey actually prescribed sungazing as part of his ôBates method
for better eyesightö. I am certain he blinded a lot of people. Not satisfied with
the misery he was paid to dole out, he explicitly disinheritied a son - a son who
had been missing for a decade - on his deathbed. One lifetime just may not be
enough to contain all the harm you need to inflict on others.
But this is besides the point, because while IÆm contemplating carrying out
some self inflicted medical malpractice, Dù is still talking. He wants all this
meaning out of me, as if thatÆs something I have even the slightest capacity
to give. Again and again I am besieged by this one-man Mongol horde of
mysticism, taking just one more crack at splitting me open and slurping out
any morsel of spiritual sustenance my husk might hold. I keep being told to
love myself, as if thatÆs suddenly going to solve my problems. Going to stop me
lying awake at night. Please please donÆt make me answer what I am outside of
whatIdo,becausethereainÆtnothingtherebutboredom,fear,fearofboredom
and boredom of fear.
You really want to know who I am? Hard person to know. Harder to love.
AsullenRomanCatholic,bornamaroononaninhospitableislandintheNorth
Atlantic. Grown in the pallid light of its phantom summers, and kept in the
meanness of its mean temperatures. So Irish as to be inbred, a product of
depressive priests and petty criminals, predisposed towards any substance that
can be abused. A non-believing stain on concrete. There is nothing behind the
eyes. Nothing. That usually settles the matter to everyoneÆs satisfaction, why
will this evident truth not satisfy him? I donÆt say any of this, I just listen
as he strings himself ever tighter, hearing the click of his verbal ratchet, and
profoundly wishing there was some release catch I could trigger. I just want to
lieinahammockdude,whymustIalsobethestill-livingcorpseinyourpsychic
vivisection?
Presently we finish our extended lay-about, and go to meet the others. It
is the birthday of the wife of my inquisitor, so weÆre all going to one of the
cityÆs many, many food festivals. Yet another sweltering day in what has been
the most relentlessly oppressive summer of our lives, the perfect time to go and
eat industrial quantities of fried dough. Walking back, Dù misses his chance
to seize immortality by not walking straight into the web of some lurking orb-
weaver. Instead I am ruing the missed opportunity to laugh at someone have
an acid freakout because the arachnids crawling all over them arenÆt imaginary.
We join up with our party around noon, and I am introduced to a sedimen-
tologist wearing limes as jewellery2 She proves to be every bit as groovy as the
citrus ear-wear promises, and treats me to a video of her work. It transpires
2Notliterallimes,thatwouldbeinsane.
2
thattrackingtheaccumulationoffiddlybitsofsilicaisprettyhard, sotheNSF
has given her money to paint them like theyÆre at a rave and record the shapes
they throw under blacklight. When talking about the earrings, she reveals a
nickname they earned from their inability to not get sloppy drunk on mojitos,
butitÆsoneofthosenicknamesthatgivesnocluetoitsprovenance,andinstead
simplysoundsalien. Inthiscase,itmakeshersoundmorelikeatinpotdictator
ofabananarepublic,thecharismaticgeneralissimowhowiththeCIAÆsbacking
will burn out the communist guerillas from the jungles they hide in. Not being
well socialised, I tell her this. Repeatedly. At one point in our chat about the
sensationalshardsofsilicateshestudies,theenormousblackmarketinsediment
is brought up. This sets a grain of memory in my eye.
Scroll back a decade, to a teppanyaki place out in Jiangsu. I am about
to have a very memorable meal with a triad. The context is simple - some
friends3 aregettingmarriedandhaveinvitedusoutfordinnerwiththegroomÆs
parents. When I ask heÆs oddly evasive about his father, describing him merely
as a ôbadassö. A badass who works in sand, apparently. Well the place weÆre
going has all you can drink beer, and from the gleam in dadÆs eye I know that
tonighttherewillbetwo ofusabusingthelivingshitoutofthispolicy. Weeat,
wedrink,wedonÆtcomprehendasinglefuckingwordofwhattheotherissaying,
anddrinksomemore. Asthebottlespileupbesidetworapidlyemptyingpacks
of Zhonghua filter kings, we begin to fall a little in love. Together we descend
ever deeper into the kingdom of future remorse, puffing away on those nasty
cancer sticks that come in the bright red box. By the end of the night we
embrace in the urinals, and pepper each other with affirmations of love. My
broken Mandarin is a lousy vehicle for it, but the deal is sealed with one more
slightly piss-soaked fag.
Now,intheaftermathofthishappyhuntfortheugliesthangovernorthofthe
Yangtze, I make further enquiries about my new BFF. HeÆs totally legitimate,
legitimate man engaging in legitimate business. But since I ask, he did spend a
bit of time in prison. Not for anything major you understand - he just couldnÆt
stop cutting off peopleÆs hands. There is I think a lesson in this! Namely you
donÆt get to choose who you love, and when reaching out, one canÆt be picky
about who takes your hand. So to speak.
Now we rewind to the present, and the broiling heat of midday. I am wear-
ing a red baseball cap, having the realisation dawn on me that itÆs a hat colour
Donald Trump has made fundamentally unwearable, at least not without sig-
nalling so much more than you intended. The acolyte is with us, which makes
me slightly nervous because every time I see her under the influence of drugs,
she finds some clever new way to inadvertently torture me. Today will be no
different, and she chooses her thumbscrews with remarkable precision and ra-
pidity. Entering the festival grounds, she makes a beeline for the stall with the
longest queue. ItÆs pretty long. So long there are two of them. This is where
shewantsherbeignetsfrom, theJamaicanplacewith alinethatstretches back
to the moon. We join it with entirely unwarranted optimism.
3morefriends! GodarenÆtIpopular?
3
How bad can it be?
The first fifteen minutes are spent in idle chat, and I barely mention the
loomingpremonitionthatnodoughnutisgoingtobeworththetimeinvestment
this one will require. It is hot, and getting hotter. It gets me reflecting about
whatastrangethingtemperatureis. Thecleanestroutetounderstandingitisas
a Lagrange multiplier reflecting a physical constraint in entropy maximisation.
It is spun ex nihilo purely from information theory - a gradient that speaks to
nothingbuthowcontingenciesmultiplywiththeenergytheyareprovided. Itis
the terminal point of imaginary time, a concept so unphysical as to be absurd,
and quite impossible to conceive as real.
Butboy,whenitÆshotitÆshot. Youbreatheitintheair,andshiverinitsgrip.
ItÆstangibleandtasteable, andthereforefundamentallydifferenttomostofthe
bollocksItrytotrapinacageoflinearalgebra. Youfeel temperature. Andfuck
me but IÆm feeling it now. A proferred durag is snatched, letting me cosplay
as T.E. Lawrence during this trial of patience. Now the acolyte can already
predict my reaction to all of this with startling accuracy, and asks if IÆm going
to spend the next week complaining how not worth it these beignets will be.
Well,grousingabouttrivialitiesisonefieldinwhichIamtrulyOlympian. Ihold
records in the hundred metre moan, the long gripe and modern bitchathalon.
The Usain Bolt of whining and Michael Phelps of carping. Knowing this, I
assure her that I shanÆt be carrying this into next week. Oh no. No no no. I
will be grumbling about it until at least one of us is dead.
The line progresses in a manner that makes me wonder if Zeno might not
have been right about the impossibility of motion. There is a phenomenon
knownasthequantumZenoeffect,wherecontinuousmeasurementofaparticle
traps the little fucker, the act of observation preventing the ordinary smearing
of possibility that evolution in time ordinarily causes. Caught under the hallu-
cinogenic potency of the sun, I begin to ponder if I myself am being watched.
Perhaps this is all data in a more cosmic test of indeterminacy. Really ought to
have joined the clergy with thinking like that. Clearly I have the temperament
forit,andatleastthatwaytherewouldbenopossibilityofproving theerrorsin
mybeliefs. Toapproach,Janus-faced,newthresholds. Tobelievethereisaway
of crossing the blood-brain barrier intact, and that if a sufficiently magnificent
truth is sought it will be found. Matter pretending to matter. A near-perfect
ontology,marredonlybyitbeingobviouslyandlaughablyuntrue. NowIunder-
standthatÆsnotadealbreakerformany,butmeIÆmpicky. Frankly,ifthedeity
does exist, then putting me in this queue is surely some kind of pre-emptive
punishment, a foretaste of the eternity where they can really start to fine-tune
my suffering. How long have I been here? Will this line ever end?
The answer to this last question is yes, but only because it leads to another
line. We have spent an hour in the ordering queue just to go to the back of the
even longer pick-up queue. ItÆs so hot, itÆs taking so long. Now I am certain.
Nomortalfoodisworththis. SlicebysliceIcanfeelwhatÆsleftofmylifebeing
wasted in this foolish quest for batter. We inch back to towards the stall with
agonising slowness. Looking behind, it is possible to chart peopleÆs evolution
through the procession by the degree to which the light has left their eyes. As
4
wedrawinsightofthefinishline,theatmosphereacquirestheferaldesperation
ofarefugeecamp. Thewomaninfrontofusdidnotrealisethatshehadjoined
the second stage of the tour de nowhere, mistakenly appending herself to the
post-queue queue, rather than the queue to pay to get into the second queue.
Analmostpsychoticdegreeoffrustrationeruptsfromher, andshegoeswailing
off to go find food not served on a geological timescale.
All this waiting, this crawling beneath this remorseless rain of angry pho-
tons. I am starting to believe this queue is going to turn me into Douglas
Crowhurst. Do we remember Douglas Crowhurst? A man who thought he
spied an opportunity for meaning in a contest he was hopelessly ill equipped to
compete in. A race to the first single-handed circumnavigation of the oceans.
Nothing but a weekend sailor, he mortgages himself to compete in a vessel of
his own design. The Teignmouth electron, a craft that could barely survive
embarkation. He floats hopelessly for two thirds of a year, trapped in a fiction
of fabricated logs. He plans to wait until the other competitors make it back
from around the globe, and limp in to a creditable last place. This wheeze is
doomedbynewsthattheleaderÆsboathassunk, andhemayinadvertentlywin
theracebyfraud. Heisfacedwiththenon-choiceoffinancialruincompounded
by public shame. Caught between sea and sky, his only refuge is in the totality
of paranoia. Unmoored from reality, he becomes tangled in a net of delusions
that drag him ever deeper into the self.
All they find of Crowhurst is his boat and final logbook. His Philosophy. It
is impossible to read those entries without a full-body shiver, in fear that you
might be infected by those selfsame thoughts. We all float on currents peculiar
to ourselves, hoping for a following wind. It is hard to read what is left of one
so thoroughly becalmed. ThatÆs what this line is becoming. A hostile ocean in
which to quietly go mad. How do people survive life in bad times? I think of
Tacitus and Seneca, and feel a prickle on the back of my neck. These vendors
are my bad emperor Domitian, rendered capricious and cruel by their inability
to serve Caribbean-Creole fusion cuisine in a timely manner. Ubi Solitudenem
facient, beignet fest appellant.
Eventually we get our beignets. They werenÆt worth it, but in sympathy I
am bought a drink. I use this to quieten the growing sense of cosmic injustice
that it is legal for people to be subjected to such underwhelment. The weather
alsotakesthisopportunitytomockme, bycloudingoverthesunandproviding
a breeze mere minutes after it would have been of any help. The psychic price
these doughnuts have expropriated makes them ash in my mouth. I eat them
anyway.
Who knows how long it might take to get another?
5


====== two-hundred-and-sixty ======
Two Hundred and Sixty
January 2024
WithtwopointsixweekslefttomylifeintheUS,thethoughtoccurstome
that I have already lived two hundred and sixty of them. As with so much else
in life however, itÆs that final one percent thatÆs proving so troublesome.
I am, I think, having trouble letting go. There is nothing like three months
of being homeless to make you yearn for home.
And weÆre leaving it. Saying one long, painfully extruded goodbye. When-
ever the time comes to grapple with whatever fatal degeneration will end me,
I will at least have had practice. There are a thousand things I want to say,
and feel monstrously constrained insofar as I can only release my thoughts one
word at a time. This may be one of those cases where it canÆt be shown, only
be told. So let me tell you about how IÆve spent the most recent 0.39 percent
of this great American adventure.
On Christmas Eve we came in from Springville Alabama - a really unim-
provably common name for an unimprovably common place - crossing the state
border into some inevitably foul weather. We were beginning to worry that
flooding might stop us making it the final half mile of eight thousand. Un-
fortunately for our friends, it didnÆt. Thanks to the ever-capricious nature of
government livestock policy, today doesnÆt mark the start of the intended three
day in-and-out, but instead sets the light on a fuse of pet-related purgatorial
uncertainty. Nevertheless, it is good to see friends. It is good to not be home-
lessforanight. PlusIgottoseehowutterlydegeneratetheAmericanCatholic
version of midnight (well six) mass is. I tell you what, all priests seem to be
labouring under this delusion that what the congregation is begging for is the
pastorÆs thoughts on their favourite television show. Give the people what they
want, thatÆs what I say padre! The most alarming discovery was that the or-
der of service had a full two pages of advertisements between the carols. At
least now I know that New Orleans is home to a plumber by the name of Al
Bourgeois, and that man is Catholic.
On Christmas day I bonded with our hostÆs fighter pilot father over our
shared experience wasting the militaryÆs money. Then I ruined it all by telling
him I was practically a communist in all the ways that matter. We dressed the
dogs as gas station mascots and had a good time, as we usually do with our
friends. It was only slightly ruined by my motherÆs insistence over the phone
that after my grandfather quit smoking there wasnÆt a day of his life touched
by true pleasure again. I am two months into my own post-nicotine era thanks
1
for asking, and I hate it. IÆm going to say nice things about all of you in a bit
and I want you to know that I would not only take it all back but I would see
each and every one of you dead for a single cigarette.
On boxing day I performed the clich`e of breaking into the office on drugs
in order to criticise my replacementÆs work product. I get the always-exciting
experienceofbeingonabusthewrongsideofLeonidasasithitsmehowmuch
more LSD IÆve taken than I needed to. Well, needed is too strong a word, but
you know what I mean. Ultimately though the worst thing that happens to
me is that I no joke slightly shit myself walking back from lunch. I suspect
Christmas greed has more to do with that one than the drugs though. Still,
I discovered some fun songs in fun ways. I have a vivid memory of slightly-
staggeringalongtheAudubonparkcircuitwhensomegoodoldboydrivingthe
park rubbish truck pulls up alongside me. He delivers a wink at the instant -
the instant - I hear ramblinÆ man for the first time.
The night after we go out and have a great meal. This turns out to be in
the same spot as the bar that æpoisonedÆ my mother with gin at the end of our
first year in the city. We also had the displeasure in getting to know two of the
coked out lunatics which these streets seem to just crawl with. It is dark, and
a large south American is screaming æhelp meÆ at the top of his lungs. He is
simultaneously making pelvic thrusts of the most erotic kind. It was a fishing
story. Andnotonedayhencewegottocelebratetwopeoplewhomakemevery
happy getting married. I presume this was done purely for my benefit, but I
suppose as a side effect it put a smile on their faces too. I got pretty shit faced
andsangRhinestonecowboyinabarattwoam. Unbelievably,thatwasnÆteven
what got us wedding leftovers kicked out of CajunÆs. I sleep in after that. We
dohoweverjointherecoverypartyjustintimeforthegroomÆsfathertopusha
couple of joints into my hand. Great guy, I learned a lot about steel mills from
him.
Saturday is drugs day. Well, harder drugs day. I get to take one final amble
through Audubon while high as a kite, and got to enjoy a friend finally, finally
clawing that bit of respect he deserves from me, with a pretty excellent sermon
on the banks of the Mississippi. Then I ruined it by taking us all down the levy
path that has a freight rail on one side and a military installation on the other.
Doing that one in the dark isnÆt high on my repeat list, and having a firework
go off not twenty feet from my face is another. Fortunately, we had our more
responsible friends to save us from ourselves once darkness fell.
There was a new year I am frankly too tired to remember, followed by an
evening camping out by the lake. This morning I got to experience the baffling
structuralengineeringofthePontchartaincausewayoncemore. Intheirinfinite
wisdom its designer chose to have it assembled in pieces of a size that conspire
with the speed limit to resonate with the shock absorbers of your vehicle. As
alarmingasitistofeel,itlooksworseforthesemi-articulatedlorrydoingninety
past your ear.
And to round it all off, tonight we get to go to my very favourite bar full of
some of my very favourite people, and do one of my very, very favourite things:
Show off.
2
When I first came to the US it was 2018 and winter in New Jersey. After
threemonthsIsworeIwouldneverwillinglyreturntotheawfulculturalvacuum
across the Atlantic. More proof - as if it was needed - that I really am a fool
who doesnÆt know whatÆs best for me. So God help me, I hate that youÆve all
doneit,butdoneityouhave. YouÆvereallyalmostconvincedmeitreallymight
be the greatest country on earth, even if you do have to live in perpetual fear
of being shot. Really! What a crazy thing to say about a country thatÆs really
starting to struggle with its fascism problem!
So yes, I could write a book about whatÆs happened to me in the past two
hundred and sixty weeks - and watch out, itÆs coming - but I didnÆt want to
waittotellyouallthisbitbeforeIleft. NamelythatIÆvehadablastthisweek,
and the two hundred and fifty nine before it. If youÆre reading this, I hold you
partially to blame.
Iconsider myselflucky. Luckyin life, in wife, andmostimportantlyfriends!
Family could always be more cognisant of how special I am, but three out of
four ainÆt bad. So with all that said, I only need one more thing to make my
life perfect. I need to be lucky tonight.
I will see you at the bar.
3


====== second-attempt ======
Second Attempt
March 2022
So here we are again. That difficult second album. After all, how is one to
surpassapreviousbest-shortformfictionthatelicitssuchlaudatorysentiments
as ôcertainly a lot of wordsö, and the ever incisive ôsubparö. Well not like this,
thatÆs for fucking sure. Here I am again, struggling away in the dark. Sifting
through fragments of memory, scattered shards of pottery atop shifting sand.
If I scrabble through long enough, the join of two pieces just so might suggest
that there is yet a whole to be recovered. We shall see! This is going to be
real jazz writing., IÆll be doing the words, and groovy Jon Thompson is going
to hit us with his metronome beat of themes... Just imagine someone clicking
their fingers once per paragraph. The most important job however falls to you,
the reader. It is absolutely imperative that you wear sunglasses indoors, smoke
cigarettes and look cool enough for both of us.
The first problem is structure, so allow me to furnish us with scaffolding.
ThisismysecondMardiGrasdoingthis,andthelivedexperienceofitwasmuch
the same. WhatÆs changed is how I feel about. The day is still a swirling mess
ofcolourandfagsmokeandthefirstethanolhitofundermixedicedcoffee. The
same emotions are animating it all, but this time itÆs not the fun I remember.
ItÆs the struggle. It is being caught under high noon, and forced to tramp that
sizzling asphalt. It is the final effort to stay coherent and coordinated long
enough to get that last drink down you. It is, most of all, about absence. This
expressesitselfdifferentlyinallofus,andhowwedealwithitreflectsus. Minor
catastrophesoflife,echoingbackatjustthemomentsomeofthoseloadbearing
wallsarestartingtocrumble. LifeÆsbeatingusup! Hereweareinthisceaseless
negotiation with the rest of reality just to carve out the space to exist. And
above it all, a cloudless shadow that darkens the day.
A good friend recently had their own descent down this particular dark
staircase. At first itÆs a sympathy story for that supposedly senior colleague
whoÆs not doing well. The seed is planted, to be watered by two days of booze.
Itbloomsintotheselfsamerealisationthattheyarethemselvesnotattheirbest.
There is something heartbreaking about the only solution to sleep depriving
anxiety being nervous exhaustion. The details change, not the outcome. The
struggle is - as they say - real. So letÆs rip the plaster off. Maybe that career
isnÆtquitegoingtoplan. Maybesomeofthoseissuesgotworseinsteadofbetter.
Maybe you shouldnÆt have eaten all that freezer lasagne... An uncomfortable
degreeofpresentrealityintrudedintothatlastone,butdonÆtletitdistractyou
1
from my essential point. Individually, and collectively weÆve hit bedrock. This
really must be the bottom of the pit. So Jesus grab a shovel, weÆre going to dig
our way out.
How do we cope? the first option is drugs because when all youÆve got
is a chemical hammer, your problems start to look like nails. The issue that
IÆve been marinating in two tabs and a full half pound of edibles, and yet am
still here, still doing this. So clearly these things are not working as doctor
prescribed. Anexamplewouldbeinstructive-ourdoghasthishabitwhereshe
continuouslylicksherpaw. ThereÆsnothingwrongwiththepaw,other than the
factshekeepslickingit. SheknowsitÆsnothelping,sheknowsitÆsjustmakingit
red and sore, and yet she persists. ThatÆs me and drugs. You can hear it in the
questions of the others, but you make the supremely confident pronouncement
that everything is nicely in hand. No no, itÆs only your brother who hopelessly
deluded himself about his ability to keep a spiraling habit in check. Suddenly
the line on that pottery shard looks like a cliff edge. WhatÆs worse, youÆre
drawing a truly dreadful visual metaphor. Maintain all the pretense you like,
but itÆs starting to look remarkably like a junkie with a grant proposal...
Itgetsworse,becausethiswildflailingisnÆtjusthurtingyourself. Ioncehad
a friend from the UK visit, for which my wife prepared a full itinerary. I had
acid though, and once I mentioned it thatÆs what he wanted to do. In the end
we split the difference and decided to tour the city while high on life. And a
few hundred micrograms of LSD. There is something unrelentingly grim about
a day that starts with you losing your mind in an un-air conditioned streetcar,
packed cheek to jowl with the other riders. In June. That evening ended with
me cradling him on the floor of the kitchen, having him wail that ôthereÆs no
ejectbuttonö,allwhilespotifydecidedwhatwereallyneededtohearwasbridge
over troubled water. Evidently, evidently drugs and their attendant manias are
not an answer. The world doesnÆt need your shamanic insight that the moon
is important, you just have to live with disappointment of having done all that
mental traveling just to arrive at the spot most people start at. Yes the moon
is important, but the fridge is icing up again and you need to go to work.
The problem is you. Our second option then is to turn inwards, to improve
the world by improving the self. Another friend, far more comfortable with
reality and their place in it, had some advice. They told me to just try to be
more free. ThatÆs going to be a hard no - if you extracted all that shame out
of me, thereÆd be nothing left. Only a fragile superstructure of ego unburdened
by the totally warranted fear of society at large. Some of us just like being
repressed, and in any case weÆve all seen too many ugly cases of people being
themselves tonotwanttoresistit. Livingperformsapeculiarsortoflithography
on the soul, and IÆm afraid that baring mine will only serve to reveal the petty
bitternessetchedacrossit. WhenIturninward,allIseeareideasthatmakethe
world worse. A dating app for scientists that gets them doing their metadata
for you, a crisis help line staffed by ChatGPT, Elon Musk buying twitter. See,
therehegoesagain, theworldÆssecondrichestmaninsertinghimselfwhereheÆs
notwanted. IfyouwanttodepressyourselfgocheckoutwhatLarryEllisondid
with his money. He casually fucked off to his own Hawaiian island, presumably
2
torecreateaTibereanCapua. Whatdoesitsaywhenalmosteveryonewiththe
resources to sequester themselves from the rest of humanity chooses to do so?
Perhaps thatÆs the solution, to be so relentlessly acquisitive that your problems
becomeeveryoneelseÆs. Butwhathopeisthereforthoseofusnot luckyenough
tohavehungoutwithJeffreyEpstein? Arewemeanttojustvicariouslywallow
inthesocialsofthosethatdid? IreallydonÆtthinkIÆmequippedforthat. After
all, weevolvedjustenoughemotionalfortitudetonotkillGragforhavingmore
reindeer antlers, what fucking hope do we have against the orbital cannon of
lifestylepropaganda? No,selfimprovementislikepost-seventiesGermanenergy
policy, insofar as it will not prevent a war in Eurasia, no matter how hard you
try.
This is when we reach for the third option, during that long Newsnight
interview of the soul. The final recourse, reserved for the moment when the
sun is beating down over a sea of endless peril, and our last reserves of strength
are spent. The only arrow in the quiver is hope. Hope that it might all just
eventually sort itself out, and that it really will get better if we donÆt pick at it.
When you beseech the universe to just give you a fucking hand, and it comes
back with a hat. A hat in the middle of an empty fucking street. It is exactly
what you need. The solution is right there, all you have to do is pick it up. Do
you really have a right to complain if you donÆt pick up the hat?
Now, I know what you are thinking. This all sounds suspiciously like I stole
a childÆs hat and then had to G¿oebbels the event by writing my side first. But
you would be wrong, the hat offers a salutory lesson beyond making sure its
owner is written out of history. Namely that it was bloody boiling out and I
should have packed a secondary wizard hat to begin with. But also that if you
wait long enough the variance of chance will put something in the plus column.
I will admit, hoping it all sorts itself out is an imperfect strategy, especially in
a universe that hands you awkward facts. As a totally random example that is
definitelynotstillkeepingmeupatnight,IonceagreedtodoapodcastwhereI
waspresentedassomesortofexpertonsmell. Theteethgrindingcringeofthat
haunts me, when every second sentence was some desperate attempt to make
ôI donÆt knowö sound erudite. Hoping the next thing I said might magically
make the preceeding bollocks coherent. That was an occasion where hitting
and hoping did not work out. ItÆs hardly an isolated scenario. Some things
- like brain surgery - go a lot smoother with a plan, and the merest shred of
competence.
Butlook,bothofthosethingsrequirework. YouknowwhatdoesnÆt? Hoping
for the best. You hit the street, hoping to find fortune with the day. And of
courseyouÆregoingtofindit, todayofalldays. Itwillbefullofsmallmoments
not readily forgotten. It will have your wife extending her flawless track record
withacostumesheMacguyveredupwhilehungoverthedaybefore. Youwillfind
yourself dancing behind Chinese weather girls, and being pleasantly surprised
thatyouhavenÆthadastrangerstabthemselvesinfrontofyouthisyear. There
will be a family dressed collectively as the very hungry caterpillar, showing a
dedication to literature that these strangersÆ kids arenÆt yet old enough to fully
appreciate, but they will be. There will be a riverbank, and a moment of peace
3
and calm.
The very first question I was asked today - am I an optimist? I am trying
my hardest not to be. The universe at large is queuing up with things to kick
us with. Parents die, relationships fail and all that half digested lasagne wants
an encore. But look, what does it say if we can have that as the background
music but still find a way to go out and dance to it? This might be looping
into another of those drug fueled inanities, observing that nice things are nice.
Nevertheless, keep smiling when youÆre struggling, and eventually you might
find a hat.
I walked the dog when we got home, and got two pieces of perspective. The
first came from an ancient witness to the city. Caught in the evening breeze,
she spoke at some length about a friend long dead. What mattered apparently
was all the happy memories theyÆd been left with. Recollection of the struggle
faded, but not the person it produced. The counterpoint was provided by a
group of students sitting outside the brewery. They were playing a game that
asked them to name the worst among them, like red guards hunting counter
revolutionaries. There is I think a clear choice to be made.
AndthatÆsit! Ididnotoncefindawaytousetheworddisenaugered. Ifailed
to call Henry Kissinger a war criminal, or remark on the age defying effects of
a thorough course of realpolitik evil. I still do not know how to stop a runaway
sentence, or rogue italics. I feel slightly less cool than last year, and have again
learned nothing.
4


====== an-ecumenical-matter ======
An Ecumenical Matter
March 2022
Let me say immediately that this is hardly a novel idea. I am far from the
first person to write about doing drugs. ItÆs certain that this essay is simply
the latest in a long line which address the topic in the context of Mardi Gras. I
doubt IÆm even the first to chronicle the experience of being profoundly fucked
up while impersonating a member of the clergy. Nevertheless, I feel compelled
to commit a particularly memorable day in mid-March to the page. This is my
report, my Mardi Gras as a bishop on acid.
WebeginintheBywaterataroundeightam,embarkingonaparadethatwill
eventuallybesuckeredwholeintotheheartofdarkness. Ourdramatispersonae
are myself - dressed as a bishop - and my wife, who for reasons surpassing
understanding decided the other minor piece in our chess set needs to be the
rook. So sheÆs dressed as a piece of medieval architecture. Our other friends
were mostly dressed as lost Germans, apart from one who owned a kilt. It
took me an embarrassingly long time to realise he wasnÆt one of those highland
Bavarians. These people will play a large role in the experience of the day but
a necessarily diminished one in its recounting.
Before continuing, itÆs important to note the variance in experience one can
have while tripping, and the illusion of chemically manufactured profundity it
can induce. By way of example, I am originally from the UK, and in the final
days of 2021 I found myself stuck in my childhood bedroom, an early victim of
the new and improved Omicron variant. It had been nearly three years since
IÆd last managed to return home, and my medical incarceration was so poorly
timed as to be comic. I had travelled 5000 miles just to reacquaint myself with
my teenage wank dungeon. By pure chance, I happened to have several tabs of
acid in my possession. There is of course an irresistible logic that follows from
these facts. What better time is there to open the doors of perception?
IÆdonlyintendedtotakeahalf,andsandtheedgeoffreality,butsuchinten-
tions dissolve pretty quickly when youÆre isolated from everything but yourself.
Beforelong,theworldstartstotakeonamoredisorderedquality,wherecausal-
itybecomesconfusedandpastandpresentcommute. Then theacidreallydrops.
It warps the world around you, turning mirrors into a maze of post-Euclidean
geometry,andcoatingrealityitselfwithafilmofpsychedelicsoap. Mymemory
of it was as a profound awakening where I confronted the animating forces of
the universe. In reality I spent twelve hours just hammering out messages to
peopleonbothsidesoftheAtlantic, becomingaflywheelofderangedquestions
1
likewhetherbedsexist. Thisisunfortunatelythenatureofanythingthatoffers
wisdom with a four hour half-life.
So with the memory of friendship-ruining 3am screeds fresh in my mind, I
question whether willingly subjecting myself to the same potency of experience
isreallyagoodidea. Basiccompulsioncarriesthedaythough,andIdecidethat
it is in fact absolutely the place to drop more acid than I can possibly sensibly
deal with. I cannot tell you how much I took because as the day goes on it
will turn out to be both far too much and not nearly enough. During the covid
interregnum I have forgotten that Mardi Gras is a spectrum of celebration too
broadforarepressedEnglishmantotrulycomprehend. Beforelongeverystreet
corner will host some uninhibited soul carrying out their personal fetish to a
very public climax. The edge between the sacred and profane is omniprescent,
and there is always some pervert actively grinding against it. This year I want
that pervert to be me. On acid.
It takes time to build up to that sort of carnage though, and the first hour
or so is spent ambling at an agreeable pace, drifting on one of many tributaries
flowing towards the party proper. My first clue that I was really taking off was
beingforcedtoconfrontanotherpriest. Myhaltingblessingandschoolboylatin
were no match for their austere mastery of the Roman catechism. It became a
naggingthoughtthatImightactually betalkingtoapriest,oratleastsomeone
far too comfortable in a dog collar for it not to be a kink. You can insert your
ownjokeabouttheRomanCatholicclergyherebytheway. Bythispointoneof
thelostGermanfriends-letÆscallhertheacolyte-findsthebagofcommunion
wafers IÆd bought off the internet. She immediately tries to offer this pseudo-
priest what she calls a ôchrist crackerö. He lays a hand on her shoulder, and
withbeatificcalmsaysthedevilhasputsomesinintoher. Justbeforewemove
on, an acquaintance of this might-be man of God appears and declares it to
be the first time they had seen him with clothes on, making the question of
whetherthismanhasreallytakenthevowsevenmore distressinglyambiguous.
Thiswasthefirsttasteoftherecurringreligiositythattheworldwillsimply
bring to you when youÆre dressed as a bishop on acid. Not long after this
the juices are starting to flow, and IÆm really starting to inhabit my role as a
bringer of righteousness. This largely entails trying on some awful cod accent,
pretending to be Jude Law pretending to be from New York. IÆm told itÆs
still getting notices from local critics. The vast majority of my duties are to
adminster rites and sanction blessings to the fellow pilgrims. The streets are a
great flock calling me father and begging for benediction. This is clearly what
the pope feels like all the time, and IÆm beginning to think I should apply.
Perhaps I should just have my own religion -
Yes, acid has definitely arrived. The acolyte just cannot get those commu-
nion wafers out of her head, and has been going ahead like John the baptist to
getpeoplereadytoreceivecommunion. Sheisjustmadlypressingthehostinto
peopleÆs hands and mouths before immediately telling them ôitÆs not drugsö.
The disappointment is palpable. This anti-fun counter reformation inevitably
brings up how much better this would be if they really had been laced. There
was however no miracle of the dosing of the five thousand, and the wafers re-
2
mainedstubbornlyuntransportative. Thisisprobablyforthebest,asIÆmfairly
sure mass drugging is the modus operandi of particularly nihilistic cults. Still,
IÆve added it to my list of things to do when IÆm too powerful to be stopped.
We continue our wandering, edging closer the the french quarter. The pa-
rade becomes more depraved by degrees, nicely pairing with my loosening grip
on reality. The crush of the crowd, and its ceaseless manufacture of sight and
sound and sweat threatens to overwhelm me. I would be lying if I said I re-
member much more from this phase than a haze of colour, and an absolute
profusion of gimps. By now it is becoming difficult to communicate with the
outside world, because it feels like the fucking star system is crash landing into
my frontal cortex. Meanwhile, our group has been organising and cohering,
becoming stronger. This prompts periodic stops in bars to piss out the liquid
fuel thatÆs keeping the day going. Not coincidentally, I keep coming into closer
contactwithmypsycheineachofthosehorriblysqualidlittletoiletsthatIhave
forgotten to turn the lights on in. At some point we duck into the what has to
be the darkest bar I have ever seen. The path to the toilets feels like a plunge
into the Stygian pit, lit only by a neon strip of red, as if weÆre about to become
victimsofaparticularlyradicalplanecrash. Iamatthefuckinglimitofmyori-
entational skills just to locate the urinal, but once IÆve begun IÆve realised that
the walls themselves have a mosaiced admonishment to safe sex written across
the whole wall. I wonder if this is the work of an interior decorator having a
very productive nervous breakdown. This was I believe real.
I am now a self-propelled prop, beyond any kind of rational conversation
and needing to be shepherded from point to point by the group. After one
particularly intense sojourn into the inky night of public toilets, my friend the
acolyte asks how IÆm doing. Truthfully IÆm grappling with the fact that this
is all going to last a long time, and it feels like some fairly important higher
brain function is permanently disintegrating. They helpfully agree and tell me
IÆm completely stuck like this now, and the parades are penning us in for a
mile in each direction like a pack of velociraptors. I want to stress that this
is hardly a statement that will comfort you while clinging onto cognisance by
your fingertips, although I canÆt discount the possibility she didnÆt actually say
it. Whether realor imagined though, I foundthis guided missile ofwhat not to
tell someone at that moment unbearably funny, and was perked right up.
Bynowthedegenerationisinfullswing,andweendupbehindthestageofa
drag contest on Bourbon street. These costumes are absolutely bonkers, to the
point that their artisans have passed through sex as a meaningful canvas and
landed straight at dressing like Doctor Who villains. There was - I shit you not
- a character called the ôspider queenö sporting an absolute cathedral of latex,
whichinturnneededthesupportofanentourageofleatherdaddies. Theywere
wastednotdoingbattlewithDavidTennantinspace. Thisactuallybroughtup
theuncomfortableeconomicrealityofdrag, insofarasitÆsalmostcertainallthe
peopledoingthisneedtobeaccountantsatKPMGorsomeothersimilarlywell-
heeled career to support what looks like a staggering financial burden. Their
real passion might be looking like a full body penis holster, but they need to
sell pensions to do it. This plight of the pervert prompted a period of intense
3
introspection while wandering the streets, and elides into a generalised sadness
at the frustrated lives we all have to lead. Ukraine is having a bad time right
now, but all three of its hippies must just be fucking miserable at the moment.
Thoughts like this are interrupted only by minor things like being accosted
by an absolute horde of Midwesterners dressed as demons, replete with fifty
cent plastic pitchforks. Being dressed as a bishop, it was inevitable that they
surrounded me, forcing me into a group photo for just slightly longer than felt
necessary. Throughout this ambush my group were just continuously mouthing
ôare you okayö as if there was any power on earth that could prise me away
from my very drunk, very middle aged captors. I learned a few things about
myselfinthispeak,largelymakingmypeacewiththefactthatcrotchlessleather
undergarments will just never really be me. I simply lack the panache to pull
it off.
We eventually escape the quarter, and enjoy a pleasant interlude on the
banks of the Mississippi. There are actual Christians here who seem to want to
be elbow deep in this restoration of Sodom, just to prove how intolerant they
can be of it. It bothers the acolyte more, but I unleash the epic wisdom that
small mindedness is its own punishment. I feel very pleased with that until
about an hour later when I realise what a load of old bollocks it is, and resolve
they should just all be shot. Believing violence is a solution to social tension
is surely a sign that IÆm on the road back to being a right thinking member of
society, and that internal equilibrium is being restored. ItÆs now that we reach
the wandering in the desert part of the trip, and I start to convince myself that
I am becoming more sober as the world around me gets thrown increasingly
off kilter. This is a bare faced lie as most of the architecture is continuing to
wave at me. One of our group whoÆd earlier split off to go check out Zulu
now reappears with a literal medal for getting to another parade on their own.
ThiswasprettyCambellianstuffandnomistake. Besidestheregularinterludes
to the post Soviet dystopias that every portable toilet was rapidly becoming,
things had settled into a new rhythm closer to reality. I am left guarding the
corner of Canal street while kebabs are acquired.
This is the skeezy time and place where a decidedly more toothesome el-
ement joins the party. The whole experience of watching the world go by is
somewhat serrated, with the lost Asian tourists being chased by homeless meth
addicts. I exaggerate, but not by much. Some profoundly drunk siblings are
attracted by the fact one of us has their parade survivorÆs medal, worn with a
calculated insoucience that suggests they got it for destroying the death star.
These new interlocutors were at each at least three levels beyond ôtoo drunkö,
an almost unimaginable feat today of all days. I donÆt know why, but watch-
ing them stagger away was like watching a child leave home for the first time,
prancinggailyintoaneightlanemotorwaymincer. ThefoottrafficalongCanal
was also taking a decisive turn away from the merely whimsical or harmlessly
sordid. Some people were sending decidedly mixed signals, dressed like hippy
pirates but with big violent rapist energy. One just looked a bit too determined
while wielding that rainbow foam scimitar. I cheered up though when I saw
a singularly prepossessed man in a suit stride along the street like their father
4
owned it. Genuinely by the end of the night that man was either going to be
crowned king of the universe or stabbed 58 times in the sternum.
We go and eat our Greek food down by the riverfront, psychically riven and
spirtually drained. The only thing that remains is the long walk home, the
road to perdition. My wifeÆs castle costume is chucked in the bin, and my own
vestments are ceremonially balled up and stuffed in a rucksack full of leaking
beer cans. Our route home has us undergoing a few more dramatic transitions,
bothwithinandwithout. Thereisamomentwhilewalkingundertheinterstate
overpass, hemmed in on all sides by the tent city of luckless vagrants, that
engenders some slight trepidation. This is somewhat assuaged by the fact that
youÆre not the guy who has got so drunk and lost that they are now wandering
aimlesslyinthemiddleofafourlaneintersection, boxedinbytheendlesscycle
of traffic lights they canÆt quite predict.
Thefurther wegetfromthat writhingmass intheFrench quarter, the more
thecitybeginstofeellikeaslightlyconfusedversionofitself. YesthereÆsanother
maninagetuptooludicrouslygarish,andfartooonabicycle tolookthatangry,
but this is the exception rather than the norm. We eventually turn onto the
thoroughfare that had been one of the main parade routes, and are greeted by
a scene of almost unfathomable carnage. This feels like a rather festive natural
disaster-theapocalypsebywayofLiberace,adirtybomblacedwithglitter. It
was in essence a bit of a mess. This was however a mess in the process of being
swept forcefully off the face of the planet by a small army of city workers. It
was a calming, meditative experience to stroll down St. Charles, watching this
act of metamorphosis - a temporary pushback against entropy. Block by block
theavalancheofplasticcrapyieldedtostreetsthathadundergonethecleansing
blast of heavy machinery, a wave of detritus swept away to return functioning
- but eerily empty - boulevards. We managed to catch a streetcar home after
watching this immense act of urban ecology unwind. It was nice.
Wife collapses in bed. I saddle up the dog for a walk, with my last cigarette
clenched between by teeth and music shuffling into my headphones.
I have learned nothing. I feel very cool.
5
